
Which parts of the ACM Code of Ethics align with Haugen's decision to copy internal documents, leave Facebook, and testify before Congress?
3.1 Ensure that the public good is the central concern during all professional computing work. 
From the NPR article, we can see she released a study facebook had done showing the negative 
implications of their platform on teenagers and girls and continued prioritizing their profits.


Would a deontologist agree with Haugen's actions? Why or why not?

Deontologists agree that "actions are intrinsically good because they follow from logic" and here 
Haugen clearly found the Facebook data and practices to be unethical. Thus she pursued her actions 
because they were backed by logic and decided that no matter the consequences being the "whistleblower" 
was the correct decision. 


Would an act utilitarian agree with Haugen's actions? Why or why not?

A utilitarian would agree as long as they came to the conclusion that there was an increased aggregate 
utility resulting from Haugen's actions. Because she deemed it to be ethical it is allowed because she 
spread the data and didn't want people to be unaware of the implications facebook might have on them as 
individuals. However, as a counter it could be denied as willingly as it is approved because of the idea 
there is no right and wrong here, only the decision in your mind of it is a movement for positive utility.


Describe the protections provided to whistleblowers in the United States. Are the protections provided positive rights or negative rights? 
Explain your response in a paragraph. You may use external resources for this response, provided that you cite your sources.

According to OSHA's whistleblower program companies are not allowed to retaliate to the whistleblower should 
they choose to remain with their company. This would be a negative right as it protects freedom of speech and 
does not imply that others are morally, or socially obligated to help you, as a positive right would be. No 
company may prevent you from acting, threaten you if you do act, or punish you in any way for being a 
whistleblower. This exists in order to promote the emphasis on safety in the workplace and make others feel 
comfortable in acting. Therefore, this program is in place to ensure businesses are held accountable for their 
actions and cannot hide their issues by threatening or harming someone's life as a result of ensuring the company 
is fulfilling a general code of ethics that they exist for the good of people and people are not just the means to an end.