1. Reading the privacy and terms I noticed it said that info is protected and they will specifically be 

asking for permission for anything that involves personal files or data, meaning it is an opt-in page.
It is opt-in because as it requires they ask to use your info and you have to allow (or "opt-in") for them to handle your data.

2.Describe two tools people can use to protect their privacy online. What kind of information do they aim to protect?
Two things users can use to protect their privacy and ensure data is not stolen or wrongfully used/hacked would be a VPN or protected 
browser that doesnt allow websites to store any information. VPN creates a private network so youre not sharing the public data that 
everyone else is on, or has ever been on and browsers like tor browser protect the user so they cannot be tracked or have data stolen.

3. What are the benefits and drawbacks of a national ID system like REAL ID?
A pro of the ID is eventually it can be used as a default for medical identification for benefits such as health care, and if the government 
wanted to require an ID to vote in the future they have a safe card for all legal citizens to use to vote. However, there are many cons such 
as the very expensive implementation and the burden on state motor vehicle departments both in terms of workload and by the fact they're 
required to store the necessary information to get a REAL ID for 10 years produces a possibility for identity theft.

4. Although the REAL ID Act was originally passed by the U.S. Congress in 2005, extensions have pushed Oklahoma's federal REAL ID 
deadline to May 3, 2023. Do you believe the delay in implementation constitutes an ethical issue? Explain in a short paragraph.
I do not see an ethical issue with the extension, I think it is a waste of time and there was no reason for the delay if it had to happen 
eventually. As someone from Oklahoma I got my REAL ID last spring but appointments are booked months in advance and tag agencies are swamped 
all day so obtaining the ID has been a struggle. However, while I do not see the ethical issue, because there was no immediate reason for 
them being forced to create a new ID besides air travel, but a passport can also be used so there is this new ID we are implementing but right 
now there is already one out that can provide the same thing. In a utilitarian ethics view the benefits of switching to it did not outweigh 
the other side of frustrating the population and using the limited federal funds Oklahoma has (in part because they are poorly managed) to 
implement this new very expensive mandate.