Describe an alternate scenario where Google’s development decisions for the Android API would likely constitute a fair use violation.




In his dissent, Justice Thomas argues that "declaring code" is protected by copyright. Do you agree or disagree with his reasoning? Explain.

Justice Thomas's decision here makes lots of sense because copying the declaring code method names should belong to the
 owner and credit should be given to whoever creates said methods. Copyrights go on something that is your idea so 
others are not able to steal that and claim it as their own, so it makes sense to imply that your own code is your idea.
I am not arguing in any way that it should not be copyrighted because at the end of the day it is someone's creation and
 innovation, but that does not mean it should be allowed to hold back development and creativity, hence the fair use act
 which allows companies to use the idea or code for the possibility of innovation and advancing the world. Since API is 
more functional than creative that should be used as a basis for all fair use because that makes sense to not bar others 
from a functional use of code that serves nothing but usually to be called to create more code. In short, all declaring 
codes should be copyrighted, and the function the code serves and what it does should determine if it can be used in fair 
use (ie the specific use of it and what the goal of the code is like if it is a building block to the creation or if it 
is the final creation).


Suppose the Supreme Court had ruled in favor of Oracle (i.e., that APIs can be copyrighted). 
What effects does this alternate ruling have on existing software? Give a specific example of an impacted technology.

If the case had been ruled in favor of Oracle we would run into a few issues. This could create a standardization 
issue of programming languages. For example, we use the Oracle API to use and learn java but if google had to create 
their own API for their programmers to learn java we would be having to learn a new language essentially anywhere we 
wanted to go to code. This also can create a monopoly if one company controls entire coding languages API and its not 
available to everyone then we run into the issue of a programmer shortage even greater than what we have now because 
people would more likely be trapped in their companies and their coding languages they know. If there is a monopoly 
oracle could charge everyone that wanted to use java for their use of the API which is a big hindrance and could stubble 
growth in the world of programming. If this case had gone the other way (oracles favor) we do not have android smartphones 
because that is what googles plan was, they were trying to allow their programmers the ability to create the android OS in 
a familiar environment using what java programmers would already know and be efficient in. 